So in the last lecture, we added our own middleware to protect certain routes against unauthenticated
access,
now we want to use that token on the front-end and actually store it when we do login to then attach
it to our requests we send on the back-end.
So for that, I will go to my user or to my auth service here where we do login, so where we do get that
token here in the response and there,
well I want to use that token, I want to store it somehow so that we can attach it to future requests.
And for that, I'll add a new field here in my auth service, a new property and I will name it token,
maybe turn this into a private property token and this will be a string and initially, it's undefined
but here in login where I get my response, I know that this response will hold the token or at least it
should,
so there I should be able to extract the token from the response,
there should be a token property and I can configure this post request, this static method here to be
aware of this,
so we will actually get back a response object which has a token field which is of type string and we
know that this is the case because we created the API and there in the user route, we do send back a response
with a token field. So we can extract this in the auth service,
now we can get that token here and we can then say this token equals, well the token here,
so this constant, now we're storing the token in the service.
We want to use that token in other parts of the app of course, we want to use it in the post service
for certain requests, to be precise, adding, updating and deleting posts. For that I'll
first of all add a new method here because the token field is private,
we could of course turn it into a public one
but I will simply add a new method here,
getToken
and there, I will return this token.
So now we can get get that token and in the posts service, we want to use it.
Now for that, we need to inject the auth service into the posts service.
We could inject our auth service here and then call get token on the injected object and then simply
add a header to all our outgoing HTTP requests here.
I will use a different way of doing that,
I will create a so-called interceptor for my HTTP client.
That's a feature offered by the Angular HTTP client,
we can add interceptors which are simply functions that will run on any outgoing HTTP request and we
can then manipulate these outgoing requests, for example to attach our token
and that's exactly what I want to do.
For that, I will create that interceptor and I will add it here
in my auth region, I'll name the file auth-interceptor.ts to indicate that we have an interceptor
in there.
Now this is an official feature provided by the Angular HTTP client
and we create such an interceptor by first of all creating a normal class here which we export, so I export
a class which I'll name AuthInterceptor.
Now this has to implement an interface provided by Angular, by the Angular framework, the HTTP interceptor
interface, you import it from @angular/common/http. This interface forces you to add an intercept method
to this class here,
so this is the contract you're signing by implementing this interface, your class has to have this intercept
method because Angular will call this method for requests leaving your app. So we add that intercept method
here and the intercept method actually has to receive an argument, two arguments to be precise.
The first one is the request you're intercepting because I mentioned, this runs for outgoing requests
and this is of type HTTP request, another type you import from @angular/common/http
and this actually is a static type which could wrap all kinds of information and data and I will write
any because I want to, well intercept any outgoing requests, not a specific one,
so I know that this interceptor will not be attached to one specific source but that I have all kinds
of requests leaving my app.
We also have a second argument and this is something you might know from the middleware on NodeJS
side,
we have a next argument here too
and actually, this interceptor works a lot like middleware, just for outgoing instead of incoming requests.
Therefore here we also have no response object because we can't configure a response here,
we're just involved in sending the request
but we do get that request and we get next which allows us to leave that interceptor and allow other
parts of our app, like for example the parts where we subscribe to the response,
we allow these parts to also to take that request and its response.
So that is why we need next here to allow the interceptor or the request in that interceptor to continue
its journey through our app and that next argument is of type HTTP handler,
also a type provided by the @angular/common/http package. This is the intercept method and this method has
to return something,
it should return a call to next handle. The handle method is provided on next
and here we actually allow the request to continue its journey. So we could just pass request here and
this would be a valid interceptor that doesn't do anything,
this will just take a request and allow it to continue without being changed.
Now we will change it though, here
I will create a new constant which should hold my token and for that, I need to inject my auth service
into this interceptor because I can get the token from there. To inject services into other services
and this is just a service in the end, the service which receives that injected service has to have
the @injectable annotation. We added that to all our other services anyways because of the way we provided
them,
we will provide the interceptor differently because the Angular HTTP client requires us to provide it differently
but we still need to add an empty injectable annotation here so that we can actually inject services into
this service, that's a requirement by Angular.
And then I want to inject my auth service, so private auth service of type auth service, make sure to add
the import path to that auth service file at the top
and now we can use the auth service here in this interceptor class and I will use it here to create
a new constant, authToken where I use my auth service and there, I can call getToken to get that token
we stored there. Now this retrieves the token from our service, the next step is to manipulate the request
to hold this token
and we should clone that request before we manipulate it,
that is something you have to do because if you directly edit that outgoing request, you will cause unwanted
side effects and problems due to the way requests work internally and are handled internally.
So let's create a new constant, authRequest and there I will call request clone,
there is a clone method which will create a copy of that request.
Now the cool thing is we can pass configuration to clone, to not only clone the request but already edit
the clone and I wants to edit it, I want to edit its headers to be precise.
The headers should be my original request headers but I also want to set an extra header which I can
do with set. Now set sounds like it would override all old headers,
it actually doesn't,
it only adds a new header to the headers and it sets the value for it
but if that header already existed, it will override it.
So here I will set the authorization header
and now that's important, authorization because we're extracting our token from authorization on the
back-end.
Here it's written with a lowercase a,
this doesn't matter,
it's case insensitive but it should be the same name.
We have authorization here,
what we're looking for on the back-end,
we need to set that header on the front-end too then. So this is the name of the header,
now the value will be our authToken.
This will create a request which will hold
this authorization header with our token and it's now the authRequest which I want to forward, which
now should leave our app.
So now we're taking or we're manipulating an incoming request and we're adding our token on the authorization
header. And to be very precise, this wouldn't work,
remember that thing about the bearer word I mentioned, our value actually should be bearer, then whitespace
and then the authToken, this is how we extract data on the back-end,
you could omit this,
it's just a convention you often see.
So now we get that added but our middleware is ignored,
we don't add it to our Angular app.
So to add it, we have to inject this as a service or provide this as a service,
however not with provided root but a bit differently.
We go to app module and there, we add a new object,
a javascript object to the provider's array.
This object has to have a couple of properties,
the first one is the provide property. There we provide a token, HTTP interceptors which is imported
from the @angular/common/http,
so that's a token, an identifier provided by this package.
Because now we're basically telling Angular, hey for this identifier which Angular will look for, the
Angular HTTP client
will look for that, for this token
we want to provide a new value.
That value is then provided with the use class property
and here, we now have to point at our interceptor.
So our auth interceptor for which you also need to add the import of course, here leading to that auth interceptor
file
we added in the auth folder. This is then imported, the auth interceptor class is imported and we then pass this as
a value that should be added.
Now the thing is, we can have multiple interceptors in an app, so we set a third value, multi is set to
true and this simply tells Angular don't overwrite existing interceptors, add it as an additional one
instead
and the internals will be handled by the Angular HTTP client.
Now our interceptor is registered and every outgoing request will receive that token.
Now of course this also means that requests which don't need that token will receive it but there, that
will simply be undefined and shouldn't be a problem
but why don't we give that a try?
Let's reload our app, after saving everything of course,
let's go to the login page and there,
let's login and now we get an error that we don't allow this header due to our cors policy basically.
So we need to allow this header on the back-end, here in app.js, we indeed don't allow this
authorization header.
So let's add it here,
authorization, this of course is required
otherwise our app will not work,
save that file and then try this again, reload this page
and send that request again
and now this looks better I guess, we got no error.
Now let's try creating a new post, simply by typing in anything here,
any values here picking an image
and this looks much better to me.
This is the post we just create it, we create it successfully,
let's give this another try
with that very meaningful post title.
So that's looking good,
we now can create our posts because now, we set that header for outgoing requests and we can see that
in the network tab by the way. Here
these are the requests leaving our application and if we have a look at this request here for example,
we see that here we got that post added successfully response and in the headers of our request,
we see that this is our authorization header we added
and this includes our token.
So now we're taking that JWToken, that Json Web Token to send it back to the back-end where we then
use it to authenticate requests.